Read a
[[http://pup.princeton.edu/books/rochlin/chapter_04.html][chapter on Taylorism]]
by Prof. Rochlin.  It is interesting that I am currently reading
Pete McBreen's "Software Craftsmanship" where he advocates that we turn away
from from modern, neo-Taylorist, deskilled software engineering and return to
the traditional ways of craftsmen.

The premise looks tempting, that software engineering should be driven like
a craft, where masters lovingly guide and mold their apprentices, passing on
their hard-earned experience.  But I'm not sure this return to the ways of the
past is really the answer.  There is something to be said for the industrial
revolution and the achievements of our modern technological society: longer
life expectancy, more leisure time, etc.  The sentimental attachment to
idealized master-apprentice relationships and artisans who take pride in their
work was a small price to pay, considering what society as a whole gained in
return.

I'm sure I would enjoy my job a whole lot more under a craftsmanship model
then the proposed software engineering roles where every task has been
deconsructed and optimized.  I would gain a lot in enjoying my life.  But I'm
not sure that it is in the society's best interest to have the entire
profession go back in time like that.

While Rochlin lists the profound transformations to the workplace triggered
by neo-Taylorism and its negative impact on the workers, he says we don't know
what the longterm effect on society will be.  It possibly will be negative,
but it could also turn out to be positive.  Industrialization has made the
Western Hemisphere the dominant force on the planet.  Would you go back to
19th Century living conditions just so blue-collar workers can feel better?
Remember that back then, living was hard, with little leisure for most; child
mortality rates were high.  People didn't live quite that old.  Do we reaaly
want to go back to _that_?

I don't have any answers for now, just a bunch of questions and things to
ponder for a while.  More later.
