I had a chat with a coworker about agile processes, which turned into a
discussion of XP versus CMM.  While many consider them two extremes of one
spectrum, I don't think it is the case.  I think CMM has more to do with how
you look at your process, whatever that process is.  It could even be XP.  CMM
is more about how you monitor your process and look for ways to improve it.  I
do realize that most people take that as a license to have more paper and more
bureaucracy, but it doesn't have to be that way.

With that same coworker, we worked on a quick Perl script to automate this
one tedious task.  He asked me to look at his first draft, clean it up and
add two somewhat simple features.  Later, when I showed him my result, we got
into a discussion of the features and how they work.  It took me a while to
realize that I had assumed one way of using it and he had assumed another.  It
would be easy to make the script support both usage patterns, but we had to
spend some time convincing each other that both were valid use cases.  We
managed to work it out, but it was unexpectedly hard.  We are coworkers who
work together all the time, we know each other, we work on the same problems,
and still it took us a while to understand that the other could also be right.
On one hand, I can't help thinking that if it is this hard when we know each
other, what must it be between strangers?  And what if they don't even share
the same culture?  On the other hand, maybe it was harder because we had high
expectations of each other, since we are so close to one another.

I attended this month's meeting of the [[http://www.jera.com/bayxp/][BayXP]].
[[http://www.johnlevyconsulting.com/][John Levy]] was presenting the
[[http://www.sustainablecomputing.org/][Sustainable Computing Consortium]].

First, let's talk about the speaker.  The invitation to the meeting made
Levy sound like an old timer who had seen it all.  He had been on large
projects throughout his lengthy career and would have great insights into
project management.  I was expecting a wizened old man of the old school, with
hard-earned knowledge about the nature of the beast.  It would be great to hear
why someone whom you would think more on the heavyweight side of process is
coming down instead on the side of eXtreme Programming.  Well, the guy is
barely fifty.  His resume looks fine, he's been around and on many projects,
but so have Scott Ambler and Martin Fowler and the other advocates for agile
processes.

And now for the Sustainable Computing Consortium.  This was recently started
by CMU, creators of SEI and the CMM levels.  Not quite a crowd pleaser at XP
meetings.  Then, there is the list of founding members: Microsoft, Oracle, and
a few others from pharmaceutical and financial outfits.  Not exactly the first
names to pop when you think agile development.  More like the purveyors of
bloated software and lovers of big process.  Someone said this might turn out
like CORBA, or another CMM-like excuse for throwing more process at problems.
Finally, the membership cost of $25,000 kinda threw people off.

So while the goals might seem laudable, time will tell if the execution
lives up to expectations.
