name: The_Hunger_Games
isbn13: 9780439023481
isbn: 0439023483
title: [[http://amzn.com/0439023483][The Hunger Games]]
author: Suzanne Collins
publisher: Scholastic
year: 2008
start: 2012-04-17

The movie was pleasant enough and a friend recommended it, saying it was in line
with other books I've read.  The movie missed the boat, though, on its depiction
of running a reality show.  The book was written in 2008 and the movie was made
in 2011, when we have clear patterns of how these shows engage and entertain the
audience to drive advertizers, from Survivor to American Idol.  There are
stages, constants recaps, and many engage the entire audience using various
voting schemes.  All that was missing and instead we got a very simplistic show
driven by a small elite of Sponsors, with the audience mostly disengaged.

I found the beginning annoying.  Katniss, the main character, goes to great
length to over dramatize what should be mundane experiences, such as eating a
blackberry on a lazy morning.  If there had been more context to make the moment
special and to justify being over-sensitive, it might have worked.  But that
moment is a quiet moment but otherwise ordinary moment and did not deserve that
level of intimate details.

But just a little further, a passage really stood out for me, on page 40, as
Katniss is coming to grips with having to fight others to the death (emphasis is
mine):

<div style="margin-left: 30px; margin-right: 30px; padding-left: 30px; padding-right: 30px; border-width: 2px; border-radius: 13px; border-style: dashed; color: #ccc; background-color: #656565;">

"Katniss, it's just hunting.  You're the best hunter I know," says Gale.

"It's not just hunting.  They're armed.  They think," I say.

"So do you.  And you've had more practice.  Real practice," he says.  "You know how to kill."

"Not people," I say.

"How different can it be, really?" says Gale grimly.

The awful thing is that _if I can forget they're people, it will be no different at all_.

</div>

This passage talks to how people can do truly horrible things to other people if
they just dehumanize them first.  As soon as we don't perceive the other as a
fellow human being, it can excuse anything.  This passage is clear and concise,
without any superfluous sappy over-sensitivity;

_More to come._
